# NOWATCH Todo Application

This is a **Todo Application** built using **NestJS**, offering a range of features such as user authentication, task management, and more. The application is designed to be scalable, maintainable, and efficient.

---

## Prerequisites

Before you start, ensure that your development environment meets the following requirements:

- **Node.js**: Version 16 or higher
- **PostgreSQL**: Version 14 or higher

### Don't Have These Installed?

No problem! You can use the included **Docker Compose** file to set up the required environment effortlessly.

---

## Technologies Used

The project leverages the following technologies:

- **NestJS (v10)**: A progressive framework for building efficient, reliable, and scalable server-side applications.
- **TypeScript (v5)**: Enhances developer productivity and ensures type safety.
- **Swagger (v8)**: For documenting the API endpoints.
- **Jest (v29)**: A robust testing framework.
- **Winston (v1.9)**: A logging library for tracking application events.
- **PassportJS**: Used for user authentication with strategies such as:
  - **Passport JWT**
  - **Passport Local**
- **TypeORM (v0.3)**: An Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library for database interactions.
- **bcryptjs (v2)**: For secure data hashing, especially passwords.

---

## Features

### Authentication

- **User Registration**: Allow users to create an account.
- **User Login**: Authenticates users using JWT (JSON Web Tokens).
- **User Logout**: Securely logs users out by invalidating their session.

### Task Management

- **Create Tasks**: Add new tasks to your to-do list.
- **Edit Tasks**: Modify existing tasks.
- **Delete Tasks**: Remove tasks from your list.
- **View Tasks**: Retrieve and display all tasks created by a user.

---

## Installation

### Step 1: Install Dependencies

Run the following command to install all required dependencies:

```bash
yarn install
```

### Step 2: Build Docker Containers

If you have Docker installed, you can set up the application and its dependencies using Docker Compose. Run:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

### Step 3: Configure the Environment

Set up your `.env` file with the necessary environment variables. Below is an example configuration:

```bash
# Database Configuration
DB_HOST=db
DB_PORT=5432
DB_USERNAME=postgres
DB_PASSWORD=password
DB_NAME=nowatch

# Application Environment
NODE_ENV=development

# JWT Configuration
JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN_SECRET=CdZMIUTEJ9eDUcRNchJuDASJ9UiJ3IzB
JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRATION_MS=360000 # 1 hour
JWT_REFRESH_TOKEN_SECRET=xtpqhYFPoCsPszo0NbQPdeECeMMP9viP
JWT_REFRESH_TOKEN_EXPIRATION_MS=604800000 # 1 week
```

---

## API Documentation

You can access detailed API documentation generated by Swagger at the following URL:

[http://localhost:3000/doc](http://localhost:3000/doc)

---

## Additional Notes

- This application uses **JWT** for stateless authentication, ensuring security and scalability.
- Logs are generated using **Winston**, allowing for effective debugging and monitoring and all logs store in log folder.
- Extensive test coverage with **Jest** has not been provided due to time constraints.

---

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
